073020 PCJ

I put what I hope is useful info on a flash drive for you. In the lab, in addition to the Hemato samples, I left the NPRB project slides (data sheets inside the slide boxes), 2 boxes of slides that will be useful training for Hemato blood smear reading (results are in the database), the protocol & codes used for the smears, the protocols I used for extracting DNA from the crab samples (Ivanova et al), primer info for the primers I left in the freezer, and the cut line equations for EBS Tanner & snow crab used to determine male maturity. I’ll drop off original collection sheets for the samples from 2013 & back. For 2014-2019, I have copies of the originals for you. The sample collection info & Hemato results for the samples from 2014-2019 are in excel spreadsheets by year. 2005-2013 data are in an Access database. Christie felt the need to re-do the Access database, so there are 2 versions – both have the same info, they’re just arranged differently. Before you extract DNA/RNA any samples, be sure look at the README doc to make sure you properly match the plate & well to the specimen number in the database. All the specimen numbers are the year, followed by 4 digits representing the chronological order samples were taken, e.g. 2003-2345 – the 2345th sample collected in 2013 (the hyphen is deleted in the databases).
1.	Useful info
a.	There are ‘cruise reports’ on line for all of the AFSC surveys that summarize all sorts of interesting data – one of the most interesting is the temperature data for the EBS. See Lauth et al 2019, fig 4-7 (on flash drive) for a multi-year comparison. The url for cruise reports (one published ea yr for ea cruise, occasionally more comprehensive reviews are within a report): https://archive.fisheries.noaa.gov/afsc/RACE/surveys/cruise_results.htm
NOAA Fisheries is re-doing their websites & it’s making gray literature like the cruise reports hard to find. If you ever can’t find publications like that, email Jim Lee or Maggie Mooney-Suess b.	List of contacts:
i.	Jeff Napp , Head of RACE Division at AFSC. Supervisor of Stan & Mike.
ii.	Stan Kotwicki , head of Groundfish Assessment Program,responsible for several annual bottom trawl surveys in Alaska, including EBS. Proficient in stock assessment, modeling, R. Coauthor (& modeler) of ms on results of first 3 yrs of Index Site style monitoring of Hemato in EBS, 2014-2017 (coauthors: Pam, Bob Foy, in prep)
iii.	Mike Litzow , head of Shellfish Assessment Program and director of the AFSC Kodiak Lab. He is responsible for crab portion of annual EBS bottom trawl survey. Proficient in stock assessment & R. Pam’s supervisor.
iv.	Bob Foy, Center Director of AFSC. Jeff’s supervisor & formerly in Mike Litzow’s position.
v.	Nate Raring , staff scientist in Groundfish Assessment Program, currently responsible for overseeing property in RACE, including the qPCR machine.
vi.	Chris Siddon , Chief Scientist for shellfish & finfish in SE Alaska, ADF&G, located in Juneau. Long-time collaborator with Pam’s group on Hemato in ADF&G. Wrote letter of support to NPRB & provided boat & people to collect crab (& do blood draws) for NPRB transcriptome project. Sits on an NPRB board that has a part in proposal selection & RFP topics. Biometrician.
